---
title: Priority Lite and Dashboards
layout: sdk_nav
group: Priority Lite
tags: 'Priority_SDK'
---

## Introduction

The HTML procedures used to display reports on the Internet in
 ***Priority Lite*** or data in  ***Priority***  Dashboards are very similar
to regular [procedures](Procedures) in ***Priority*** .
However, there are some basic differences, including additional features
that support the special needs of these procedures. There are also some
new features that allow you to specially design the displayed reports.
This section focuses on those innovations.

These procedures are displayed on the Internet or in Dashboards by means
of HTML pages that are generated by each INPUT step in the procedure.
One or more of the following can be displayed in these pages:

-   reports
-   input parameters from the procedure
-   procedure messages (including error messages)
-   graphic web parts.

A base HTML page serves as a template for the page that is displayed.
This base page defines where to situate the reports, parameters and
messages displayed by the procedure. It can then be revised, and
pictures, links and text may be added.

Before you can create the base page for each INPUT step, however, you
must construct the HTML procedure and its reports.

## The Structure of HTML Procedures 

There are two essential structural differences between HTML procedures
and regular ones:

-   Reports can only be displayed in an [INPUT
    step](Procedure_Steps#Basic_Commands).
-   The procedure does not run continuously from beginning to end.
    Rather, it is interrupted at each INPUT step, at which time it
    generates an HTML page. It continues where it left off when the user
    clicks **Go** (or any other link) on that page.

## Displaying Reports 

1.  Generate the report in a REPORT step.
2.  Include in that step, in addition to the parameters that are
    transferred to the report, an additional parameter of **ASCII** type
    with the value OUTPUT (do not use quotation marks).
3.  Use the same parameter in a (later) INPUT step, but this time
    without any value.

**Note:** There is no limit to the number of reports that can be
displayed in the same INPUT step.


> **Example:** In a procedure that displays the *Sales Orders* form, you
> can define three reports: one for the header, another for the order
> items and a third for totals. The procedure in question generates the
> three reports (in separate REPORT steps) and then displays them
> together in the same HTML page (i.e., in the same INPUT step).

## Retaining Variable Values After the Procedure Stops 

As the procedure does not run continuously, but rather stops and starts,
its link files and variables "disappear" whenever it is interrupted. To
retain the value of a variable:

1.  Define it as a [procedure
    parameter](Procedure_Parameters).
2.  Make sure it is included as a parameter in the INPUT step at which
    the procedure stops.

The variables in question are recorded in a hidden section of the HTML
page, and their values are returned to the procedure when it is run
again.

## Further Reading

-   [User Identification for Priority
    Lite/Dashboards](Lite-Identification )
-   [Designing HTML Reports for Priority
    Lite/Dashboards](Lite-Dashboards-Reports )
-   [Additional Input Options (Priority
    Lite/Dashboards)](Additional-Input-PriorityLite-Dashboards) )
-   [Defining a Base Page for HTML Pages (Priority
    Lite/Dashboards)](Base-Page-HTML) )
-   [Writing Dashboard
    Procedures](Dashboard-Procedures )
