---
title: The STACKERR Table
layout: sdk_nav
---

When running the interface program using [the \'-m\'
option](Executing-the-Form-Load#Form-Load-Parameters ), each
error message is broken up into several lines. Thus, for example,
instead of the following message:

*Line 1- Price Quotation A9000019: You cannot base the order on a price
quotation of Draft‎*status.\'\'

the user will receive 4 messages when the \'-m\' option is used:

*1: Sales Rep Order Num*\
*2: form \'Sales Orders\'*
*3: Price Quotation A9000019*\
*4: You cannot base the order on a price quotation of Draft status.*

This can be problematic if the user tries to open two sales orders based
on two different price quotations and both quotations have the Draft
status. In such a case, certain messages will not appear in the
**ERRMSGS** table, since the unique key of the **ERRMSGS** table is:
**USER, TYPE, MESSAGE**. In the above example, message number 4 will be
the same in both cases and will therefore appear only once.

This problem is easily resolved by using the \'-stackerr\' option. This
will insert all error messages into the **STACK_ERR** table, rather than
using the **ERRMSGS** table to store interface messages. The original
**LINE** value from the load table will be stored in the **INTDATA1**
column of this table, and the error message will be stored in the
**MESSAGE** column.

This option is also useful when you write a procedure that executes more
than one interface. In such a case, the second interface would
ordinarily delete any messages received by the first one. In order to
maintain the messages generated by the first interface, use the
\'-stackerr\' option and assign each interface a different parameter for
the linked file. This will create a separate linked file of the
**STACK_ERR** table for each interface you execute.

> **Example:** To open sales orders based on price quotations, and then
> open a shipping document based on the new sales orders, the following
> code would be used. (In this example, it is assumed that the initial
> status for sales orders is flagged as *Allow Shipmt/ProjRep*.)
>
> ```sql
> SELECT SQL.TMPFILE INTO :G1 FROM DUMMY;
> SELECT SQL.TMPFILE INTO :G2 FROM DUMMY;
> SELECT SQL.TMPFILE INTO :S1 FROM DUMMY;
> SELECT SQL.TMPFILE INTO :S2 FROM DUMMY;
>
> LINK GENERALLOAD ORD TO :G1;
> GOTO 99 WHERE :RETVAL <= 0;
>
> LINK GENERALLOAD DOC TO :G2;
> GOTO 99 WHERE :RETVAL <= 0;
>
> INSERT INTO GENERALLOAD ORD(LINE,RECORDTYPE,TEXT2)
> SELECT SQL.LINE, '1', CPROFNUM 
> FROM CPROF 
> WHERE PDATE = SQL.DATE8;
>
> EXECUTE INTERFACE 'OPENORDBYCPROF', SQL.TMPFILE, '-L', :G1, '-stackerr', :S1;
>
> INSERT INTO GENERALLOAD DOC(LINE,RECORDTYPE,TEXT1)
> SELECT SQL.LINE, '1', ORDNAME
> FROM ORDERS, GENERALLOAD ORD
> WHERE ORD.LOADED = 'Y'
> AND ORDERS.ORD = ATOI(ORD.KEY1);
>
> UNLINK GENERALLOAD ORD;
>
> EXECUTE INTERFACE ' OPENDOC', SQL.TMPFILE, '-L', :G2, '-stackerr', :S2;
>
> UNLINK GENERALLOAD DOC;
>
> LINK STACK_ERR S1 TO :S1;
> GOTO 99 WHERE :RETVAL <= 0;
>
> SELECT * FROM STACK_ERR S1 FORMAT;
> UNLINK STACK_ERR S1;
>
> LINK STACK_ERR S2 TO :S2;
> GOTO 99 WHERE :RETVAL <= 0;
>
> SELECT * FROM STACK_ERR S2 FORMAT;
> UNLINK STACK_ERR S2;
>
> LABEL 99;
> ```

## Further Reading 

[Click](Advanced-Programming-Tools ) for information on
additional advanced programming tools.
