---
title: Release Notes
layout: docs_nav
permalink: /api/changelog
collection-title: Web SDK
---
<style type="text/css">
    
    ul {
        list-style-type: disc;
    }
</style>

## Web SDK Release Notes (Version 2.2.18)

* **getFileUrl** in forms is replaced with **getDataUri** to address changes in how Priority secures files.
* **datauri** property added in **displayurl** stage in procedures. 

### Documentation Changes
* Added page of examples for working with forms, procedures, and file upload.

## Web SDK Release Notes (Version 2.1.6)

* Added **wordTemplates** array to *documentOptions*

## Web SDK Release Notes (Version 2.1.4)

* Added **autoRetrieveRows** option **2** to *formStart*.

### Documentation Changes
* loginFunctions has been moved to its own page.

## Web SDK Release Notes (Version 2.1.2)

### SDK Changes

* TypeScript is in! 

#### Procedures
* Added **upload** step type in procedures.
* Some name changes:
    - *UpdateFormCallback* is now **UpdateFieldsCallback**.
    - *EditFields* is now **EditField**.
* Added **InputFieldsReturn** and **EditFieldReturn** object types.
* Added **ChooseFields** and **ChooseField** object types.
* In **EditField** property types of *readonly* and *mandatory* is now number (0 or 1).

### Documentation Changes

* TypeScript - updated object types in various parts of the SDK.
* Reorganized the navigation menu - release notes more readily available.

## Web SDK Release Notes (Version 2.1.0)

### SDK Changes

* Added **isUserConsent** method to [`LoginFunctions`](../api/global/#LoginFunctions) object. Includes additional information on how to access the GDPR consent interface.
* Added support for logging in with a per-application license.
* Added the **windowSize** property to [`Form`](../api/form) object.

### Documentation Changes

* When working with [file uploads](../api/form/#uploadFile) **FileUploadResult** is no longer in use. It is replaced with **FileProgress** and **FileResult** for *onProgressCallback* and *onSuccessCallback*, respectively.
* Added **languages** method to [`LoginFunctions`](../api/global/#LoginFunctions) object.

## Web SDK Release Notes (Version 2.0.2)

Following feedback from developers, we've revised the time format used with the SDK. When providing time and datetime, add the timezone offset (e.g. 2018-08-14T10:00:00.000+03:00).

## Web SDK Release Notes (Version 2.0.1)

### SDK Changes

The [`fileUpload`](../api/form/#uploadFile)  and **uploadDataUrl**[`uploadDataUrl`](../api/form/#uploadDataUrl) functions now require an additional callback, *onProgress*. When uploading a large file, *onProgress* is called while the upload is still in progress; *onSuccess* is only called when the file upload completes successfully. This corrects the issue with Promises for these functions. 
As a consequence of this change, the *isLast* property of the [`FileUploadResult`](../api/form/#FileUploadResult) object is no longer necessary and has been removed.

Added two new functions [`filterChooseAction`](../api/form/#choose) and [`filterSearchAction`](../api/form/#SearchAction), which allow you to bypass business process restrictions when creating a filter for a form. 

Date fields  no longer accept or send a relative, text-based date such as *Tomorrow* or *Beginning of next week*. Additionally, dates must be formatted according to ISO standards, ~~and times should be in UTC~~.

The rest of this release is mostly about increasing uniformity between procedures and forms in areas that overlap between the two.
1. [`choose`](../api/procedure/#choose) function: the object name in the response was changed to Search (previously Choose).
2. [`inputOptions`](../api/procedure/#inputOptions) function, **Options** object: the *help* property was renamed to *helpstring*.
4. [`ProcError`](../api/procedure/#cancel) object, *text* property was renamed *message*.
5. [`inputFields`](../api/procedure/#inputOptions) function, **EditFields** object has had several changes:
    - Removed the properties *isboolean* and *columntype*.
    - Added properties *code* and *type* (these function the same way as those of the Column object in forms).
    - Added the *format* property (specifies the format of a date, such as 'DD/MM/YY')
    - *Width* property renamed to *maxlength*.
6.  The [`proc`](../api/procedure) object has two new properties, *name* and *title*, that provide the internal name and title of the procedure being run.

### Documentation Changes

1. Added this page!
2. We now have a dedicated [priority-web-sdk](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/priority-web-sdk) tag on StackOverflow!
1. Added a more detailed explanation of how procedures work.
2. Added examples of the different data objects for each step type in procedures.
3. Minor fixes and typos.