---
title: Release Notes
layout: docs_nav
permalink: /restapi/releasenotes/
collection-title: REST API
tags: 'REST_API'
---
<style type="text/css">
    
    ul {
        list-style-type: disc;
    }
</style>

## Documentation Update (July 23)

- Added a new dedicated page for authenticating with the REST API. This includes a new guide for authenticating using OAuth2.

## Documentation Update (June 23)

- Added a note regarding the Odata context returned when making requests to the API on a cloud tenant hosted on AWS.

## Documentation Update (March 23)

- Added the [fair use policy](../#priority-cloud---fair-use-policy) for API calls to systems hosted on the Priority Cloud.

## Documentation Update (February 23)

- Added a previously undocumenated change to [$batch](../Modify/#Performing_Batch_Operations) in version 22.1 - response format is now based on request format.
- Added an example of referencing a new entity in $batch.

## Documentation Update (November 22)

- Added the cap for response size (350MB).

## Rest API Release Notes (Priority V. 22.1)

- The REST API now respects field-level permissions in Priority forms. Users will not see and cannot update fields they do not have permissions to view/write to.

## Documentation Correction (July 22)

- The section on [$batch](../Modify/#Performing_Batch_Operations) erroneously stated the max amount of batch operations as 10,000. This has been corrected to 100.

## Rest API Release Notes (Priority V. 22.0)

- You can now request the [Priority and Odata version](../request#requesting-the-priority-version) on the server.
- Priority Software Cloud customers can now [refresh the metadata](../Modify#Priority_Software_Cloud_-_Refreshing_Metadata) for entities with private customizations.
- To increase consistency across different languages and locales, the REST API now requires that all decimal values use a period as the decimal marker.

## Documentation Update

- Refreshed the Postman collection to include handling attachments.
- Removed mention of PUT as possible way to modify records.

## Rest API Release Notes (Priority V. 21.1)

* Auto-unique key fields, exposed in the full metadata of entities (forms), are now annotated as read-only and cannot be changed via the API. This also means you cannot refer to existing records by their auto-unique key when using PATCH or POST.
* When updating a related entity, the API response now includes the parent entity of the entity being updated (e.g. the ORDER to which an ORDERITEM is added).

## Rest API Release Notes (Priority V. 21.0)

{% include alert.html content="<h3>Breaking Changes</h3>" %}
*   Before version 21.0, attachments were retrieved as links to the file on the server. In version 21.0, they are [retrieved as data URIs](../request/#Requesting_Attachments). You can also attach files to a record by [posting the file as a data URI](../modify/#Attaching_Files).
*   [Dates](../#Timezone) sent by the server now take into account timezone settings of the Priority installation (the TZSERVER system constant and any timezones set per company).

### Other Changes
* Raised the cap on batch operations to 10,000 requests.
* The response to batch requests will now default to JSON format (rather than multipart/mixed).

### Documentations Changes
* Added a note concerning the limit on the number of returned entities, determined by the MAXFORMLINES system constant.

## Documentation Update (July 2020)
* Added section on debugging (adding Trace to requests) to introduction
* Added example of nesting multiple expands to access sub-subforms.

## Documentation Update (June 2020)
* Updated the Postman collection.
* Updated **filtering with logic operators** with an additional example showcasing the use of parentheses. 
* Deleted deprecated features.
* Corrected time formatting in $since.
* Corrected several typos.

## Rest API Release Notes (Priority V. 20.0)

### Rest API Changes
* Reworked text form support. Text will no longer be broken down into lines.
* Documents (forms with Business Process Management) now support the use of $since to easily retrieve records that have changed since a given point in time.

## Rest API Release Notes (Priority V. 19.1)

### Rest API Changes
* Added support for $skip.
* Added support for $batch operations.

### Documentation Changes
* Added $skip.
* Added documentation on $batch. 
* Moved Updating Multiple Related Entities and Writing to Text Forms to deprecated. 
* Updated Postman collection.

## Rest API Release Notes (Priority V. 18.3)

### Rest API Changes
* Added **AppId** and **AppKey** headers for per-application licensing. Requests to the Priority OData service must contain these headers in order to access the system under this license.
* Added language specification for returning messages from the system in the desired language.

### Documentation Changes
* Made a separate section on filtering by date.
* Clarified and expanded documentation of composite keys.
* Added example of deleting a related entity.

## Rest API Release Notes (Priority V. 18.2)

### Documentation Changes
* Added a caution regarding %20 (space) when working with operators.
* Added a more detailed explanation on inserting and updating related entities, with examples of singleton and multi-entity inserts/updates.
* Added a note reminding users that some entities may have composite keys.
* Added a note about /n being unavailable.

